---
layout: post
title: Conversations Spark The Use of Computer Voodoo
tags: Dreams And Thoughts,Entertainment,Humor,Vagina Monologues
---

Most of the inspiration I get in writing comes from my own
experiences, something that a friend has told me, or some crazy dream
that I had a few nights prior. I tend to add a little flair in order
to make the story sound more vibrant than it really was. But sometimes
reminiscing on something after-the-fact makes you feel like a complete
fool. This is my life. I deal with it.

It is interesting how a conversation with a good friend can go from
normal, to wacky and finally end with something so Alice-in-Wonderland
that you have to look at the instant messenger window and say, “What?”
You know, one of those conversations where the person on the other end
just dropped a nugget on you the size of Texas, and then they
immediately expect a credible, well-thought out answer.

The conversation in question that captivated me enough to write about
started like any other would, and immediately segued into the topic of
the Vagina Monologues (henceforth referred to as ‘the VM’). As I was
nursing a hangover from earlier that morning, the topic of
conversation quickly moved to what the festivities could be after the
VM.

For me a performance of the VM would be enough to wear me out for the
night and I could not even conceive a need for an after-party. But
most of the time I am not one to turn down an invitation of any sorts,
especially since its not often that you get a chance to go hang out
with the cast performing the VM.

I have only been to a couple of cast after-parties before and none of
which led me to a gentleman’s club where some of the women performing
in the VM would spend their time (and hard earned money) watching
other women take off their clothes. This was very intriguing to
me. Personally, I don’t find those types of places entertaining, but I
had to inquire further about the situation.

Having known the person for a long time, the fact that she enjoys
going to these clubs doesn’t surprise me, she is just <em>that</em>
type of person. I mean, it’s not like she went to the club and left
with bite marks from one of the performers. Something like that is
only reserved for the bold, but she is the type of girl who knows how
to enjoy a night out on the town <em>her</em> way.

Now being even more interested than I had originally been, the hike up
to Connecticut to witness the VM (and the subsequent after-party)
began to sound more inviting. Not to mention the obvious perk of being
able to scry into the eyes of two natural beasts having their way with
each other at aforementioned gentleman’s club.

Now <em>that</em> might be worth the drive.

So the conversation moved away from that subject and on to something
that was a little more personal. What exactly does it mean, in a
dream, when a particular item that should be one thing, turns out to
be another entirely?

The awkwardness continued with, for lack of a better term, the condom
shoe (henceforth referred to as ‘the shoe’). This shoe was of interest
to me, for I am the one who dropped this nugget on the table, but also
because I had absolutely no idea what it meant. Again, as I said
above, I tend to pull inspiration from all walks of life. But the
shoe, a size ten ‘Nevado’ with a black sole and fuzzy tan, was a
complete paradox.

Being a person that tends to over analyze my dreams I often question
the motives of my subconscious. Why had a shoe, that was too small for
my feet, appeared in my dreams in such an unorthodox manner?
Furthermore, a few hours prior, I had just removed my pair of New
Balance sneakers after putting good mileage on them. Why did my brain
decide to discriminate against the pair of my trusty kicks?

My friend suggested that I should coddle my pair of Nevado shoes more
often, for they could quite possibly bring me more
luck. Unfortunately, I could not parallel the fate of Dorothy, as I
had recently thrown that pair of shoes away.

After we decided to part our ways and end the line of communication on
instant messenger, she vowed to stop using the voodoo doll that she
had built of me for anything other than humane purposes. I thanked her
and laughed at the same time. But I had to ask, “Did you actually make
a voodoo doll of me?”
