---
layout: post
title: Performance Anxiety Might Make You Settle For A ‘C’
tags: College,Entertainment,Humor
---

I usually make it a habit not to talk about classes that I am
currently taking. It makes for some awkward situations. But there are
times that I simply can’t resist (or, as it is with this case, have
nothing else to write about).

The first day that I started a particular class this semester caused
me to immediately become so enraged that I wanted to rush to the
registrar and yell at someone. Some of the required curriculum at this
university boggles my mind. What is the meaning of forcing a student,
some of which are commuters with full time jobs, to perform community
service in order to get a grade in class?

What really ticked me off was the fact that I am indeed paying for
this community service through my tuition fees. The grade that I would
be getting at the end of the semester would have something to do with
how well I can write a paper based upon my experience slaving myself
away for some non-profit organization.

What, you’re telling me I can’t just stand on the corner in Newark
with a cardboard sign that says, “Will work IT for free (non-profits
only, please)?”

But what originally got me thinking about this was if there was any
benefit to the university for having its students perform community
service on behalf of their class. Of course, there was an existing
list of organizations needing free help.

I am going to be liberal with the mathematics here, but lets say that
there are twenty students in the class. That means that each semester,
for each enrolled student in this class full of twenty students, now
has to perform community service.

I’m not quite sure how many sections are being taught this semester,
but lets say that there are sixty students enrolled in three sections
of this particular course. Each student must perform thirty hours of
community service.

Okay, keep up.

That is twenty students, three sections, and thirty hours per
student. That means this school, utilizing my quite liberal
calculation, is squeezing eighteen hundred hours of community service
per semester out of the student’s wallets. That’s a lot of free labor.

There are some people that might think that community service builds
character. But shouldn’t that be my choice to give up my precious
hours (that are far and few as it already is)?

While I am in college, slaving away with a paper and pencil at math
and physics problems, I don’t expect my university to take advantage
of me. That, of course, is reserved for my future employer that wishes
me to on-call seven days a week twenty four hours a day.

So what’s next? Are we going to be required to perform a campus
cleanup as part of our humanities curriculum?

Before the hate mail and phone calls from administrators start to file
in I want to make it clear: I am not against community service. I am
against this being in a required class. If this class was an elective,
and it was upfront that I would need to perform said requirements,
then I would absolutely have no complaint (I would just not take the
course). But that’s not the case, is it?

If you are going to dangle the “A” above my head like I am dog at
least let me choose a company that I am going to learn something at. I
enjoy the challenge of something new. I would much rather have the
option of working for a company for thirty hours where I would learn
something other than how my existing skills that I learned outside of
academia are being slaved out to an organization that should be
putting money into the economy.

I am pretty sure how much I am worth, but because this school will be
my future alma mater (someday, if I am finally able to pass that damn
Calculus III class) I will charge the New Jersey minimum wage of $7.15
per hour. New Jersey Institute of Technology, you owe me $214.50,
before state and federal taxes.

I’m sure the check will be in the mail.
