---
layout: post
title: The Month Of September 2009
tags: Apartment,College,Landlord,Life,Pennies For Thought,Woes
---
It has been nearly a month since I have slept a full night on an
actual mattress. During Labor Day weekend, about a month ago, the unit
above my apartment sprung a leak in the bathroom and an existing
problem got worse. A small spot of mold turned into a swarm, spreading
from the upper corner of the wall, down the closet and into my
personal affects. A small growth of mold that we wrote to a landlord
about in a letter with our rent had multiplied, and forced my roommate
and I out of our apartment. The water pressure had also destroyed the
tiles in our bathroom's shower leaving us miserable and dirty to
boot. As you can imagine this was not how I wanted to begin my last
semester as an undergraduate at university.

Over the course of the month I have seem my health be affected by the
disturbed sleeping pattern, the uncomfortable arrangements I have had
to make, and my studies have hit an all time rock bottom. This was the
first time in my life that I have been physically without a place to
call home; luckily I have been able to shack up at the office on an
air mattress (occasionally sleeping on the couch to give someone else
the mattress to sleep on) which has definitely eased the pain a
little. But I can honestly say that this has been one of the worst
months of my life.

All throughout this month I have learned how much I am actually able
to take without breaking. I really feel like shit right now, burnt out
and beat up, but my mind is keeping my sicken body going. I<strong>
<em>need</em><span style="font-weight: normal;"> to get this work
done. No matter how much trudging it takes I am going to begrudgingly
finish everything as best as I can. I am going to keep my mouth shut,
no matter how much I think a teaching method is wrong. Maybe one day I
will be able to incorporate what I have learned at college into
something meaningful. </span></strong>

I am writing this blog post now sitting on the air mattress that I
purchased a couple of weeks ago. My room has yet to be fully finished,
I am waiting on a contractor to finish shampooing the carpet, and I
have piles of work that needs to be taken care of. The past two weeks
I have been nursing a cold that had seemingly gone, came back, only to
be gone again leaving a persistent dry cough. I survived the first
round of midterm exams, have one more next week, and will be
officially halfway finished in about two weeks. This semester has
truly been the worst and I am absolutely looking forward to the real
world. A world without examinations meant to trick you into the wrong
answer, mislead you, and generally make you feel shitty about
yourself. A world where the end result matters and not the theoretical
process that you used to get that result.

I can smell the roses. Let's just hope that life does not through
another curve ball my way. My apologies for something that is less
humorous - I have been unable to write a funny piece this whole
month. I'll make an attempt to get back into the groove of things
soon. I promise.
