---
layout: post
title: Twitter Competing With Themselves
tags: Business,Entertainment,Internet,Lists,Retweet,Technology,Technology,Twitter
---
The Twitter service is agnostic to your special characters that we use
as annotations to <em>#topics</em> and <em>@people</em>. The community
came up with these "features" as a way to facilitate conversation on a
service that was meant to broadcast our daily meanderings. One of the
main reasons why Twitter took off was its easy to use, well
documented, and public API that can be used to literally build a
client out of any computer language that knew how to handle HTTP
requests. The service boomed, but the problem is that Twitter's gold
standard client was now left in the dust because all of these brand
new kids on the block were offering features that the community
invented.

[caption id="attachment_550" align="alignleft" width="500" caption="Twitter web client as of November 2009"]<a
rel="attachment wp-att-550"
href="http://thoughtlessbanter.com/2009/11/18/twitter-competing-with-themselves/twitter_1/"><img
class="size-full wp-image-550" title="Twitter November 2009"
src="http://thoughtlessbanter.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/11/twitter_1.jpg"
alt="Twitter web client as of November 2009" width="500" height="208"
/></a>[/caption]

So let's fast forward to the current day. The Twitter web client now
incorporates almost every single feature that you can find inside of a
third-party client. Any username that is prefixed with an <em>@</em>
symbol is properly highlighted and linked, and #<em>hashtags</em> that
convey an idea (subject matter about the tweet) are highlighted as
well. These subjects, when clicked, take you to the Twitter search
feature which show you all the tweets "related" to that subject
matter.

Now obviously it is not perfect. If you take a look at the daily
trending topics people will append tags to the end of their
promotional tweets to get to the top of the search list. We have
brought ourselves back into the days of high school where everyone
wants to be the popular kid of the block, wearing the latest clothes,
and listening to the new music.

The problem that Twitter is facing is that they are competing against
themselves. Because they are allowing outside clients to literally do
nearly anything they want their "market share" is being chewed up by
application authors. Will Twitter be able to survive? Well, that's
precisely why we are seeing the addition of <em>Twitter Lists</em> and
the infamous <em>Retweet</em> features to the web client. These are
ways that Twitter is attempting to draw back people to using the web
service. <a
href="http://creativecapital.wordpress.com/2009/03/30/its-official-twitter-hires-ex-google-designer-douglas-bowman/">A
couple of months ago Twitter even hired an ex-Google web designer</a>
to spruce of their web interface, and let me tell you something, it
looks a hell of a lot better now!

While the community still invents clients and services around Twitter
they need to figure out a way to make some cash. Eventually the guys
with the money are going to start pounding on the tables wanting a pay
out. I enjoy the interaction that I am able to get by using Twitter,
but the business side of me keeps asking <em>How are they going to
make money?</em> Every time that I look at Facebook I keep thinking
that eventually my Facebook information kludge is going to eventually
be rebranded to Twitter when they dump a boatload of cash on the
venture capitalists laps. Although the way that the Internet works
you'll see a clone in the works as soon as news of that merger hits
the pipes.

<strong> </strong>
