---
layout: post
title: Beating Children Should Not Be Incognito
tags: Children,Dyfus,Entertainment,Humor,Pennies For Thought
---
When living in an apartment it has generally been an acceptable
practice to take out the garbage on time, pay the electric and gas
bills on time, and generally be a good neighbor to all of your fellow
homosapiens. Another general practice is to make sure that the
children that you have bore both in and out of wedlock are properly
disciplined.

Now, back when I was a kid this meant listening to your mother,
playing nicely with your siblings and doing what you were told. Back
when I was a kid, if you did not do what you were told, Papa would
come home and show you the wrath of God which usually resulted in you
thinking twice the next time you decided to defy an order. If you were
stupid enough to do the same thing more than twice then it was usually
time to stop using the belt and starting using more inanimate objects:
the door, the wall, a lawn chair.

When I moved into my new apartment in August, despite all of the usual
expectations of an apartment in Newark, it was actually a rather
pleasant experience. I had escaped the wrath of Residence Life
deciding to turn on the air conditioning about the three weeks too
late and a maintenance request taking longer than the trip to candy
mountain to be serviced. The benefits most definitely outweighed the
costs (and trust me, Residence Life despite all of their falters
during my tenure there did not drop the ball when it came to that $750
cancellation fee).

That was until I found out there were two inexperienced parents living
upstairs who decided to have children a little too early in their
“relationship” (in quotes because I do not fully understand the
situation regarding Mommy and Daddy). This meant that while I was
watching a football game I had the second floor menaces screaming at
the top of their lungs and playing their own game of “Who could be the
loudest during the Giant’s football game?”

I am a firm supporter of parents having the ability to beat their
children. The recent teachings about being a good “parent” and using
“positive” reinforcement helps the development of children. We are
living in an age where parents are scared to discipline their student
because some gung-ho grammar school teacher will report them to child
services.

I envision a future where we will begin outsourcing he beatings of our
children to a paid service so that the liabilities can be transferred
via ink on a paper. Because we are living in a world where we do not
like to be responsible for our actions. But not I, because beating my
child is one privilege of parenthood that I am absolutely looking
forward to – DYFS, I’ll send you an IOU.
