---
layout: post
title: New Apartment, Code, School, and Consulting
tags: Code,Consulting,Dreams And Thoughts,New York City,Software Development
---
Well, well, it has been quite awhile since I have last written a blog
post to the masses. Since then there has been some very awesome
updates in the world of technology that I have been unable to give my
opinion about (not that anyone is actually <em>reading</em> my
opinion). The last month has been a busy time in my life. I finally
have a change of scenery and have moved across the Passaic river from
Newark, NJ to Kearny, NJ in a much better apartment (and area). I
cannot even begin to express how great it is to finally have a bed to
sleep on. You do not really know how much sleeping on a couch,
mattress, in your car, at your friend's place, really sucks until you
have to do it for two months of your life.

My tenure at the New Jersey Institute of Technology is about up. I
will be receiving my bachelors degree in December as long as I do not
screw up any of my classes. As it looks now the only class that I have
to worry about is Physics II, because I absolutely loathe electric
circuits and the such, but I have a good feeling about the next exam
so I think all will be good. Last week I taught two classes on
<em>Linux, Boost, and C/C++</em> to some capstone students at
NJIT. Capstone students are essentially students that are working on
their senior project (or thesis) to graduate.

At the beginning of September I made the concise decision to get off
my ass and start getting my life in gear. So along with a
controversial hair cut (went front long hair to short hair) I went and
began putting out my feelers for contract (and consulting) work to pay
some bills. I am currently working on a project for a friend of mine,
have one or two personal projects in the pipeline, but unfortunately
nothing that is paying some green yet. We'll see how that goes.

That's about it for the quick read. I am going to make an effort to
post some more blog entries when I think about it. Most of my bright
moments happen when I am not near a keyboard.
