---
layout: post
title: The Big Twenty-Four
tags: Birthday,Family,Gratitude,Interesting People,Pennies For Thought
---
Another year has gone by and I am once again typing to the sweet
melodies of Slipknot, with a glass of Jack Daniels to the left and my
MacBook at my right. This birthday unfortunately will be plagued with
stuffing my nose into a physics book learning about electromagnetism,
but I figured I would take a little time tonight to write a small
little blog post about the things that I am thankful for this year. I
find myself looking less upon the past as of recent so I think it is
fair to give the time needed to acknowledge those that have had a
profound meaning to me this year.

# The Guys At Zinkk What can I say? The past year has been full of
amazing achievements for a group of guys that came together with a
dream. We each are working through our lives to try and make this
business float. Up until the past couple of weeks the outlook was
gloomy, and then we pulled together to have an truly amazing time at
the teacher's conference. The late nights spent coding, planning, and
sipping coffee with you guys are among what I cherish the most this
past year. I hope, no matter what happens with our business, that our
lives will allow us to continue to work together in some form or
another. There is absolutely no way I would be happier if Type Aloud
launched and immediately was taken down by a storm of rabid Twitter
fan boys. We can only hope for such a mob!

# My Friends, Close and Far Many of you may not even know the affect
that you have towards my ability to still be a sane person. Some of my
happiest times are sitting at the universities' pub drinking back
beers and talking about life. Or spending a night drinking booze
watching people make fools of themselves playing _Asshole_ or arguing
about the logistics of Michael Jackson being both a superstar and a
pedaphile. I do have a myriad of misfit friends, but you all each play
a specific role to my plan for future world domination, and I will
make sure to treat you all like royalty in the new republic.

# The Fam They may or may not be reading this. Nevertheless, it need
not be said, but I wouldn't be here if it weren't for them.

Well that's about it for me. I am going to exit on that note (and
_Smashmouth - Walking On The Sun_).  I hope all of you have a great
holiday, an even better year, and I can't wait to see what the next
twelve months will bring.
