---
layout: post
title: Wait To Buy That Amazon Kindle

tags: Amazon,E-Book,Hardware,Kindle,Life,Reader,Technology
---
After about three years of waiting for Amazon to polish up their Kindle e-book reader I finally decided to drop some money and buy one. I bought the <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Kindle-Wireless-Reader-Wifi-Graphite/dp/B002Y27P3M/ref=amb_link_354011402_2?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=center-1&pf_rd_r=0JBQ3JRVRG0XWS48RSFX&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=1275319322&pf_rd_i=507846">3G + WiFi Kindle</a> and received it at the beginning of this month shortly after they went on sale. Now, let me first say that I have used Amazon for purchasing for <em>years</em> - I use them so much that being an <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/prime?ie=UTF8&*Version*=1&*entries*=0">Amazon Prime</a> member actually pays off for me - so I figured the quality of the Kindle experience would be amazing. After ordering it at the beginning of August my gut feeling started to tell me it may have been a bad idea.

I put in an order for the Kindle at the beginning of August because I knew it was going to be a hot product. I purchased the <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Extended-Warranty-Display-Generation-customers/dp/B003E47YG2/ref=kin2w_ddp">two year extended warranty</a> from one of the third-parties that issues them (off Amazon's website) and, at first, I purchased a <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Kindle-Leather-Display-Latest-Generation/dp/B003DZ1YAY/ref=kin3w_ddp_pop1_popT">case that did not contain the built-in book light</a>. 

Every couple of days I was checking on the delivery estimate for the Kindle, which originally was for the end of August, and finally they completely removed the actual date estimate from the page all together. At this point I called Amazon customer service, and they assured me that it would arrived <em>no later than the middle of September</em>, but that was the best estimate that they could give at the time. After receiving the Kindle UPS decided to continually deny my request to leave the Kindle's case at my apartment door because it "required a signature." Due to this, the Kindle's case got sent back to Amazon and I was refunded - after using the Kindle I decided to spend a little more money to get the <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Kindle-Lighted-Display-Latest-Generation/dp/B002LVUWL8/ref=kin3w_ddp_pop1_popT">case with the reading light</a>.

I received the case a few days later and noticed that the bottom hook was not stitched completely straight, therefore the Kindle did not seat perfectly vertical, but I tried to push it around and it <em>seemed</em> quite stable so I did not think anything of it. This morning I open up the Kindle to read on my morning commute and it is frozen at the screen saver, refusing to manually restart (or even hard reset), thus leaving me with a brick. A few minutes later while on my way to the train station my trusty Amazon branded case decides to let my Kindle slide on out and hit the ground. At this point I was livid.

Luckily there is nothing more than a few cosmetic bumps and scratches on the device, but I decided then and there that I (a) wanted a new case and (b) wanted an answer to why my Kindle was freezing. I searched a few pages on the Internet and found that, apparently, the Kindle freezing is a more common occurrence and Amazon is addressing it with a firmware update. While browsing my Kindle's page on Amazon's site I found that despite the fact that I paid for my two year warranty, it was not being shown on the "My Kindle" page. 

I brought the case issue to the attention of Amazon and they are now rush shipping me a replacement case. I decided to wait on the warranty issue as well as the actual device issue because I read several places that merely plugging the device into a computer <strong>should</strong> solve the freezing problem. It is now about an hour and a half since I plugged my Kindle into my Mac, and it is still sitting there, frozen and unusable. 

At this point I am debating on why I should not just send this device back to Amazon and wait another year for them to "perfect" the reading experience. I would go to a competitor, but unfortunately, they in a much more shitty situation than Amazon. So my advice to all of you book loving people out there drooling over the Kindle - wait another year, maybe they'll take the boat loads of money they are making and actually put some of it towards fixing the bugs.
