---
layout: post
title: New Jersey State Education Woes
tags: Chris Christie,College,Education,Governor Christie,High School,Life,New Jersey,Opinion
---
I am a product of a sub-par New Jersey education system. The New
Jersey State Education system is in shambles, barely having enough
money to keep teachers on the payroll and nowhere near enough money to
adequately fund the extracurricular activities that are actually
interesting children enough to go out and learn on their own. Most of
my days of high school I slept through, my memories of Spanish class
included a milk chug contest and a phone call resulting in a mad rush
to steal the exam questions off the teacher's desk. The good memories
usually involve my friends, skipping school to go hang out at the mall
once I had a driver's license, or skipping class to work on computers
inside of the school's computer science lab. When it came to education
I was able to perfect the art of bullshit, but I did not learn the
skills necessary to get myself into a good college.

I am also lucky, because I knew at a very young age what I wanted to
do with the rest of my life. I have been writing software since before
I remember, tinkering with web pages and writing scripts since well
before high school. I was crimping network cable to construct a make
shift LAN-party to scrimmage before Counter-Strike (and later, Day of
Defeat) tournaments. My final year of high school I went into
vocational school for computer science, spending most of the time
writing code for my Half-Life modification and extending some Quake
code to gain an illegal advantage over some of the other guys that
were in the technology class with me. Those were some good
memories. But now, eight years later, after spending six years working
towards a bachelor's degree I can look back and say that I wish the
K-12 education system had their shit together. I would have spent much
less time re-learning trigonometry, college algebra, physics and
chemistry.

What is the point of this rather long anecdotal account of my
education history? I read every day about how "Governor Christie is
destroying the education system by slashing education funds," and each
day I laugh, because the education system was already destroyed long
before Christie made the attempt to balance their budgets. Teachers
are pissed off, parents are pissed off and their kids are sitting
around oblivious to it all. So the school goes and blames the governor
for their budget problems, goes and balks at the union cutting the
newbie teachers that actually give a shit about the students they are
teaching. I have worked with education professionals, met some amazing
teachers, been taught by a few of them, but those are far and few
between. The sad fact is the vast majority of teachers are collecting
a pay check, tired of their job, but do not have any other career to
fall back on.

Unfortunately teachers are amongst the lowest paid professionals when
they should be on the opposite end of the spectrum. These are the
people molding (or at least put in charge of) the workers, thinkers,
tinkerers, great minds, of the future, and we pay them pennies? As I
said earlier I believe that the whole education system in New Jersey
(and from what I can tell, most of the United States) is broken. We
attempt to teach the masses the same exact way, not focusing on the
kids' skills where they excel the most at. A student's education
should be well rounded, but if they are better at mathematics (or a
field which involves mathematics) make sure to focus their plan on
math.

For those that are not interested in mathematics, literature or the
sciences, we have carpentry, automotive, and other mechanical trades
that can easily be taught at a young age. One thing that I credit my
high school for making available the superb-focused (and amazing
instructors) of automotive, carpentry and beautician programs at the
choice of the student as an elective. I was lucky that the computer
repair and general information technology programs were budding at the
time that I went through. But this is exactly my point - we need to go
back to the times where we have targeted programs for the interests of
students, including apprenticeships, and certifications that actually
mean something in the work place. I did not need to go to college, I
was more than ready to take a full-time job working as a programmer at
the age of eighteen, but in my industry a bachelors degree is a litmus
test.

New Jersey, please make a real attempt to clean up your education
system, and stop placing your budgetary blames solely on the shoulders
of a man just attempting to balance the books. Because the last time I
checked not only are we in debt, but we have the highest property
taxes, the most toll roads, in the nation. Where is all the money
going?
