---
layout: post
title: iPad 'Unlimited' Data Plan Extended To July

tags: 3g Data,Apple,At&Amp;T,Cell Phones,Internet,Ipad,Iphone,Technology
---
I was reading <a href="http://engadget.com/">Engadget.com</a> today
and I came across <a
href="http://www.engadget.com/2010/06/04/atandt-extends-olive-branch-will-let-ipad-all-orders-before-june/">this
tidbit about AT&T deciding to allow iPad orders before July 7th to
continue to have the unlimited data plan</a>. For those of you that <a
href="http://thoughtlessbanter.com/2010/06/03/ipad-vs-att/">read my
iPad vs. AT&T blog post</a> it highlights all of the points that AT&T
seems to have forgotten when they first decided to change how they are
going to handle their data plans. The facts are simple - most iPhone
users consume between 200-500MB worth of data, and (from AT&T's
metrics) the 98% of all iPhone subscribers use less than 2GB of data
per month. But what they did not include is the metrics from the month
long usage of the iPad. Due to streaming applications such as Netflix
the iPad itself is absolutely going to use more data.

The major data consumption on the Internet is audio and video, both of
which applications on the iPad are designed specifically for, whether
it be watching a <a
href="http://blog.netflix.com/2010/04/netflix-available-on-ipad.html">movie
streaming from Netflix</a>, a <a
href="http://www.squawkingbaseball.com/?p=998">baseball game through
the MLB application</a> or <a
href="http://gizmodo.com/5505288/slingplayer-hd-coming-to-ipad">television
through your Slingplayer</a> - it is very clear that this device is
going to overall trump the usage of a standard iPhone. You can bet
your wallet that the widely popular service <a
href="http://hulu.com">Hulu.com</a> will be eyeing up developing an
application for the iPad as well.

With all of these data heavy applications that 2GB cap is going to be
quickly approached. Of course the AT&T suggestion is to use WiFi as
often as you can, but why should you have to? This device was designed
to run on battery for roughly <em>ten hours</em>, so why should I be
tethered to my apartment, office or coffee shop? Most people purchased
this device because they planned on reading, listening to music or
watching movies on their daily commute into the office. Others may
have picked it up to placate their children on long car rides. You're
telling us now, after we purchased the device, to not use it for what
<strong>we</strong> purchased it for?

I am still on the edge about whether or not I will purchase a 3G iPad
before July 7th. Part of me cannot justify spending this much money on
a device that I do not see myself using all too often, but the other
part of me, the commuter, sees all the ways that I can use this thing
to keep my mind busy on the train into work. Yet still another half of
me wants to develop some cool games for this beast. So the real
question is, do I wait until later or purchase it now to take
advantage of the unlimited 3G data offer? I think the answer is pretty
obvious, how about you?
