---
layout: post
title: Installing Lion

tags: Dreams And Thoughts,Internet,Technology
---
<p>At some point near the end of last week I decided to try out this new fangled operating system that Apple has been toting for the better part of the year. I used their <a href="http://www.apple.com/mac/app-store/">Mac App Store</a> but within the first few minutes I ran into some issues that should have been a forewarning to spending the time to be an early adopter of Lion.</p>
<p>Earlier in the year I installed a developer preview of Lion which did not seem to include too many features. In fact, I did not even remember that I installed this, and when it came to the Mac App Store at first it believed that I already had Lion installed. After some searching through Google and forum posts I was able to figure out how to reset the Mac App Store and get Lion downloaded. The installer kicked off without any problems. This is when the proverbial shit hit the fan.</p>
<p>I was greeted with a failure message that basically told me jack squat. My disk was corrupt and unable to be repaired by the Lion installation image (or the bundled Disk Utility program). This was a real problem. After some quick searching some fellow patrons suggested trying a repair installation with the original Snow Leopard installation disk. I tried this and was met with a little success - I was now greeted with a seemingly updated installer that included Safari and an updated version of Disk Utility. But to no avail was I able to actually get Lion installed on the disk. My laptop was effectively a brick.</p>
<p>Since I was actually busy this weekend (riding the Monster around New Jersey) I decided that I would make an appointment to see the "Genius" bar at the heralded 5th Avenue Apple Store in New York City. This was a big mistake. Despite making the appointment an hour and a half ahead, arriving fifteen minutes before my appointment, it took them a full hour to actually see me. Not the best service thus far. The "Genius" that I met with was baffled at the problem claiming to never have seen the installation do this to a laptop. Great.</p>
<p>What really complicated the matter was that I was using FileVault to encrypt my home directory just in case my laptop got stolen. If it wasn't for this fact I would have merely copied all of my music, photos, and documents over from the directory to an intermediate storage device. After completing the re-installation of Lion I could copy it over and all is good. But, rightfully so, this was not the way to actually complete the measure.</p>
<p>Now I am writing this without actually attempting to open up the encrypted sparsebundle that my data is stored in. I have a copy on an external drive that I mounted in the Lion installer, and copied over the files from the Terminal application. The actual Lion installation (after using Disk Utility to erase my main disk) went smoothly without a hitch. All of my applications were installed and ready to go after about an hour and a half.</p>
<p>The only thing that remains right now is getting the sparsebundle mounted unencrypted so I can extract the data, and figuring out why <a href="http://thoughtlessbanter.com/2010/09/12/time-machine-backups-over-samba/">my instructions for using a third party device to backup with Time Machine</a> don't work. It is looking like that Apple is requiring the use of AFP protocol for Time Machine backups. This won't be too much of a problem as the open source netatalk solves this for all of you Linux users, but for people using an integrated device that runs a stripped down version of Linux it may be a little bit of a pain to get this on the device. Nevertheless, I am on the problem.</p>
