---
layout: post
title: Changing Virtual Hosts Linode

tags: Cloud,Internet,Linnode,Virtual Hosting
---
<p>In the past I have had some problems with <a href="http://dreamhost.com">shared hosting services</a> mainly due to the speed and limited functionality that was offered through their control panel interfaces. This one in particular used that famous <a href="http://cpanel.com">cPanel</a> garbage that got popular when most administrators didn't know a lick about using Linux. A few years ago there was this whole "cloud" term that was passed around like the town slut. What this basically means is distributed, always-on, fault-tolerant, all those terms that your rockstar network engineer has thrown at you but really doesn't know anything about. What it gives us neophyte administrators is a cheap, virtual Linux server that we can configure to our own liking.</p>
<p>This meant that I was no longer tethered to the limitations of the infrastructure provided by the website. My <a href="http://slicehost.net">previous host</a> got swallowed up by Rackspace and went to shit. A few months ago someone told me about <a href="http://www.linode.com/?r=b90dcd1bc65db59266072739b19ace1c82dceec0">Linnode</a> as it is a local Jersey business, so I started to check them out, and finally bit the bullet today and started the migration process from my old host to this brand spanking-new piece of iron. It took me about an hour and a half to get the blog post that you're reading up and going. Not too shabby.</p>
<p>I'd like to reminisce for a moment: I remember way back when I had to work with someone that was paying hundreds of dollars a month for hosting to get ten megabytes and a subdomain for their account to start a video game portal in the late nineties. These bastards were being charged, by the subdomain, some absurd amount by the web host to set up a few DNS records. Now, mind you, it took sometimes several <em>days</em> for DNS to propagate across the Internet back then. I was able to accomplish this feat in the matter of about fifteen minutes, and ironically enough, the last machine that I had access to to actually receive the DNS update was my previous virtual host. Bastards.</p>
<p>So if you're going to take the leap to virtual cloud hosting, give Jersey some love and set it up on <a href="http://www.linode.com/?r=b90dcd1bc65db59266072739b19ace1c82dceec0">Linnode.com</a>, and by clicking on that link you'll give me a free credit for $20 if you sign up for three months. Not going to lie, I completely wrote this post to hopefully get two or three of you poor schmucks to get me a month of free hosting. But hell, I'm going to be posting more set up information regarding my LAMP stack in the upcoming day or so. Free consulting as far as I am concerned.</p>
<p>As always, go fuck yourself.</p>
 
