---
layout: post
title: Keeping On Top Of It
tags: Life
---
Many of us "formally trained" developers tend to put an engineering
mindset to many of the problems in our life, and this is exactly what
I did when I took a look back on my own personal productivity
issues. I was beginning to notice that much of my day was filled with
distractions. Many of them are valid, but a good chunk of them could
be managed <em>much</em>, <em>much</em> better. If you're productivity
is anything like mine it comes in spurts: the beginning of the day
you're cruising with two or three cups of coffee in you, and about an
hour before lunchtime everything starts to slow down only to pick up
at around 3:45pm. For the next two and a half hours you actually get
some work done.

I've always had a problem with distractions during work. Many people
tend to have the problem where they'll answer personal e-mails, cruise
around on Facebook, or tap away on their phone. I do all of
<em>that</em>, but it never became a problem where I had reassess my
strategy of getting shit done at work. I am a news junkie. And just
like any other junkie, my habit can become compulsive and often lead
to me wasting a lot of time on lurking. When you give them a medium
that literally includes live news feeds from all around the world,
well, I make a habit of spending my time reading. Reading. And
reading. It could be about <a
href="http://sportsillustrated.cnn.com/2012/football/nfl/01/20/dolphins.philbin.ap/index.html?sct=hp_t2_a3&amp;eref=sihp">sports</a>,
<a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2012/01/20/politics/campaign-wrap/index.html?hpt=hp_t2">politics</a>,
<a
href="http://politics.slashdot.org/story/12/01/20/2043213/microsoft-pushes-for-gay-marriage-in-washington-state">jubilation</a>,
<a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2012/01/20/world/meast/syria-us-citizen/index.html?hpt=hp_t1">world
turmoil</a> or <a
href="http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/breaking/chi-ice-orange-juice-ends-volatile-week-higher-20120113,0,1625344.story">even
the fall (and eventual rise) of orange juice options</a>.

At the time of this writing it is roughly four thirty in the morning
and I am cruising news websites because I can't sleep. But during the
hours of work this can absolutely become a problem. One of the ways
that I have been able to manage it is by spending a good chunk of time
in the morning (and evening) on the bus ride reading news
digitally. This gives me my fix for the day and doesn't affect work
productivity. Being of the engineering mindset I'm always looking for
that optimum solution for being productive at work. How do you manage
your action items? Do you plan your day out on paper, use colored
post-it notes based on priority, an old fashioned to-do list, or are
you the type of person that doesn't <em>needÂ </em>a mechanism to get
shit done?

For me I'd definitely be in favor of software that allowed me to track
to-do items across multiple environments (Windows, iPad, Android, Mac)
and have found that <a
href="http://code.google.com/apis/tasks/">Google's Task API</a> gives
me the ability to do this seamlessly. But I haven't yet found a proper
front-end that is clean and intuitive to use. On the Mac side the <a
href="http://culturedcode.com/things/">Things</a> software has been
around for awhile, but charges for the application usage on multiple
platforms. They seem to have solved the issue elegantly, but I am also
looking for integration with my <a
href="http://calendar.google.com">Google services</a> which doesn't
seem to be there yet. And I also have that pesky Windows and Android
to think about. Not to mention it is just damn expensive.

Maybe the answer is that there isn't anything yet that'll let me
organize my priorities digitally, but I have a hard time believing
that. What are your experiences?
