---
layout: post
title: Why Android Pisses Me Off

tags: Android,Apple,Google,Iphone,Technology
---
After a few years of iPhone ownership I made the mistake that has
become signature of clumsy Apple owners as of late. The seemingly
innocent mishap where your phone slides out of your hands and contacts
with a surface, creating a spider-like hairlike crack across the glass
screen, but rendering your phone still usable until you poney up the
benjamins to replace the screen. At the point that this happened my
phone was already two years old, I was eligible for another contract
extension, but I refused to sign my life away to the behemoth that is
AT&amp;T for another two years. I got a <em>really</em> good deal on
an Android phone, off contract, so I went down that route and for the
first few months fought many battles that, I thought, were eventually
won.

Most smart phones nowadays have battery problems. Even the brand new
iPhone is plagued with issues regarding the battery life draining away
that Apple is trying to solve with software patches. But I feel that
because of the large differences in software stacks that are shipped
with phones it is much harder for Google, and the
device manufacturers, to solve these problems across the board. Every
single Android device that I have ever seen has <em>some</em> kind of
battery issue. Luckily this is solved quite well with the
[JuiceDefender application][1] that is available from the market
place.

Another issue that I've run into is that some of these standard, "best
of the breed" Google applications, just plain old fucking suck. There
are at least three different mapping applications that shipped with my
phone that I can count. This may be a result of the bundled software
that HTC installed, but from what I've been able to ascertain Google
owns at least two of them. What the hell is the difference between
_Locations_ and [Maps][2]?  I have never had an instance when I wanted
a map where I did not want to find the fucking location of a business
and get walking, subway or driving directions.

My phone came with a [Navigation application][3] that Google
maintains. In my opinion this has to be the best navigation software
that ships standard with a phone that I have ever seen. _When_ it
works it is much more accurate than any GPS navigation unit that I
have ever owned. The turn by turn directions are almost aways spot on,
and the features that come out of the box work as advertised. There
_is_ one catch. Often it can take five to ten minutes to pick up a
signal with the GPS satellite, and by that time you've probably turned
around several times because you lost your fucking way. Often
rebooting the phone and launching the application again will solve
this problem.

By far my largest complaint is the fact that Google can't seem to hire
proper employees that can actually design a framework to make these
generic applications flow. It feels like the workflow of the
applications were all thrown together without any foresight into the
context of where I may have been before it launched. The speed of
launching new applications is generally slower than the iPhone
counterpart, and responsiveness of the system needs to be beefed
up. My phone is by far not a slug, but why am I waiting for Google's
own applications to chug along, hang, and finally open up another
application because the mapping application doesn't actually
incorporate the navigation software?

Google needs to work on the cohesiveness of the user experience across
the whole system. The software is top notch. I love being able to
synchronize my contacts, calendar, and e-mail between all of my Google
services seamlessly. But I can't turn a blind eye to the fact that
someone over there doesn't seem to understand that we *need* to have
synergy between the workflow and the interface. The fact that this
doesn't exist and the software is plain old fucking slow is making me
want to go back to Apple.

I purchased a screen replacement for my iPhone 3GS and plan on
spending some time this week to bring it back to working order. I
think my experiment with Android is done for now. You can release
hundreds of phones a year with your software, get thousands of
activations every day, but if you can't make the software and the
hardware work seamlessly what is the fucking point?

[1]: https://market.android.com/details?id=com.latedroid.juicedefender&amp;hl=en
[2]: https://market.android.com/details?id=com.google.android.apps.maps&amp;feature=search_result#?t=W251bGwsMSwxLDEsImNvbS5nb29nbGUuYW5kcm9pZC5hcHBzLm1hcHMiXQ..
[3]: http://www.google.com/mobile/navigation/
